# Attribute Bindings

HTML attributes provide additional information about HTML elements. You are already familiar with a few of them: id, class, href, src...
In Vue, mustaches are only used for text interpolation. To bind an html attribute to a **dynamic** (JavaScript) value, we use the `v-bind` directive:

```vue
<div v-bind:id="book.id"></div>
```

A **directive** is a special attribute that starts with the v- prefix. They are part of Vue's template syntax. Similar to text interpolations, directive values are JavaScript expressions that have access to the component's state.

The part after the colon (`:id`) is the "argument" of the directive. Here, the element's id attribute will be synced with the `book.id` property from the component's state.

Because v-bind is used so frequently, it has a dedicated shorthand syntax:

```vue
<div :id="book.id"></div>
```

❗ Note: id is not the only thing we can bind to html-elements. There are many more like class, style, value, href, src, and event handlers such as onclick, onmouseover, etc.

For example:

```vue
<button class="btn btn-primary" :class="{ active: isActive, 'text-danger': error != null }"></button>
```

In the example above, vue adds the class `active` if isActive is true. Also, `text-danger` is added when the value of `hasError` is not null.

❗ Note: You can have both the static as well as the dynamic attribute bind to the element - class & :class, id and :id, img and :img, etc..

<hr style="max-width:24rem; margin-top:2rem"/>

### Exercise

Every book has a unique identifier (`id`). At the moment, the first item in the list has an hardcoded id (`id="1"`)
To ensure uniquenesss, let's update the `id` of the list item. 

Change this line:
{% raw %}
```vue
<li id="book-1" class="book-item">
```

to:

```vue
<li :id="'book-' + books[0].id" class="book-item">
```
{% endraw %}

Neat! Although we don't see anything happening yet, we need the id for things like toggling classes and deleting the book.

<hr style="max-width:24rem; margin-top:2rem"/>

## Next Chapter

Let's see how we can use this id in the next chapter.

<a href="../4.event-listeners" style="display: inline-flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; padding: 6px 12px; background-color: #3b82f6; color: white; text-decoration: none; border-radius: 6px; font-weight: 500; font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.5; transition: all 0.2s ease; box-shadow: 0 1px 2px rgba(0,0,0,0.05);">
  Next: Event Listeners
</a>


